Hi, I'm
chef Scott Royce of Loyalist College.
Welcome to today's butchery session
today, we'll be discussing Ontario Lamb,
so I have in front of me an Ontario lamb
before I talk about these cuts.
I wanted to highlight
that the muscle structure and bone
structure of an animal with four legs
is very similar.
This is a lamb again,
which is a sheep under one year old,
but the cuts will be very similar in a pig
or in a cow.
Those cuts, as we get larger into account,
for example, you'll see more of them
and they'll have different names.
But today
we're going to be doing some comparisons
and showing you the highlights
of how they're similar and different.
So let's get into it.
We see first on our lamb the neck.
OK, so that's this part here.
The neck typically goes till about here.
OK, then we have our shoulders.
We have two, one on either side.
This incision
that you see here is going to kind of show
that curvature of that shoulder.
So there's that curvature of the shoulder
attached to the shoulder is
the four shank
then, as I mentioned, that
neck comes to about here
and then we have our rack of lamb.
So this is the most expensive cut
and the one that you see typically
on a lot of restaurant menus.
After that,
we have the saddle or the loin. OK.
And then that leads into the leg.
That leg you can see starts here
where this curvature starts
and goes all the way down to here.
And then we have the hind
shank here at the end.
It's important to note as well
those tenderloins are
inside of the cavity, parallel
on either side to the spine,
and I'll show you that later on.